Custom Pages for `<UserProfile />` and `<OrganizationProfile />` (#404)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/components/customization/organization-profile-custom-pages.mdx

---

> title: Customize Organization Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: <OrganizationProfile /> customization
```

> description: How to add custom pages to the `<OrganizationProfile />` component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to add custom pages and include external links within the navigation sidebar of the <OrganizationProfile /> component.
```

---

> # Custom pages in Organization Profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `<OrganizationProfile />`

The `<OrganizationProfile />` component supports the addition of custom pages and use of external links in the navigation sidebar. 
```

## `<OrganizationProfile.Page />`

> The `<OrganizationProfile />` component supports the addition of custom pages. These custom pages can be rendered inside the `<OrganizationProfile />` component and provide a way to incorporate app-specific settings or additional functionality.
> 
> To add a custom page, use the `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom pages can be rendered inside the `<OrganizationProfile />` component and provide a way to incorporate app-specific settings or additional functionality.

To add a custom page to the `<OrganizationProfile />` component, use the `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` component.
```

### Usage

<Tabs items={['Next.js', 'React', 'Remix']}>
    <Tab>

>         `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` can be rendered **only on the client**, and in Next.js app-router projects, they need to be under the `"use client";` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` can be rendered **only on the client**. For Next.js applications using App Router, the `"use client";` flag must be added.
```

        ```
    </Tab>

    <Tab>
        ```tsx filename="routes/organization/$.tsx"
        import { OrganizationProfile } from "@clerk/remix";
        import { CustomProfilePage, CustomTerms } from "../components";
        import { CustomIcon } from "../icons";

        export default function OrganizationProfilePage() {
        return (
            <OrganizationProfile path="/organization-profile" routing="path">
                <OrganizationProfile.Page label="Custom Page" labelIcon={<CustomIcon />} url="custom-page">
                    <CustomProfilePage />
                </OrganizationProfile.Page>
                <OrganizationProfile.Page label="Terms" labelIcon={<CustomIcon />} url="terms">
                    <CustomTerms />
                </OrganizationProfile.Page>
            </OrganizationProfile>
            );
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Props

All props below are required.

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `label` | `string` | The name that will be displayed in the navigation sidebar for the custom page. |
| `labelIcon` | `React.ReactElement` | An icon displayed next to the label in the navigation sidebar. |

> | `url` | `string` | The path segment that will be used to navigate to the custom page. (e.g. if the `OrganizationProfile` component is rendered at `/organization`, then the custom page will be accessed at `/organization/{url}` when using path routing) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `url` | `string` | The path segment that will be used to navigate to the custom page. (e.g. if the `OrganizationProfile` component is rendered at `/organization`, then the custom page will be accessed at `/organization/{url}` when using path routing). |
```

| `children` | `React.ReactElement` | The components to be rendered as content inside the custom page. |

## `<OrganizationProfile.Link />`

> In addition to custom pages, you can add external links to the `<OrganizationProfile />` navigation sidebar using the `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add external links to the `<OrganizationProfile />` navigation sidebar using the `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` component.
```

### Usage

<Tabs items={['Next.js', 'React', 'Remix']}>
    <Tab>

>         `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` can be rendered **only on the client**, and in Next.js app-router projects, they need to be under the `"use client";` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` can be rendered **only on the client**. For Next.js applications using App Router, the `"use client";` flag must be added.
```

        const OrganizationProfilePage = () => (
            <OrganizationProfile path="/organization-profile" routing="path">
                <OrganizationProfile.Link label="Homepage" labelIcon={<CustomIcon />} url="/home" />
            </OrganizationProfile>
        );

        export default OrganizationProfilePage;
        ```
    </Tab>

    <Tab>
        ```tsx filename="routes/organization/$.tsx"
        import { OrganizationProfile } from "@clerk/remix";
        import { CustomIcon } from "../icons";

        export default function OrganizationProfilePage() {
        return (
            <OrganizationProfile path="/organization-profile" routing="path">
                <OrganizationProfile.Link label="Homepage" labelIcon={<CustomIcon />} url="/home" />
            </OrganizationProfile>
            );
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Props

All props below are required.

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `label` | `string` | The name that will be displayed in the navigation sidebar for the link.  |
| `labelIcon` | `React.ReactElement` | An icon displayed next to the label in the navigation sidebar. |

> | `url` | `string` | The absolute or relative url to navigate to |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `url` | `string` | The absolute or relative url to navigate to. |
```

## Advanced use cases

> ### Reordering Default Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reordering default routes
```

If you want to reorder the default routes (`Members` and `Settings`) in the `OrganizationProfile` navigation sidebar, you can use the `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` component with the `label` prop set to `'members'` or `'settings'`. This will target the existing default page and allow you to rearrange it.

### Usage

<Tabs items={['Next.js', 'React', 'Remix']}>
    <Tab>

>         `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` and `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` can be rendered **only on the client**, and in Next.js app-router projects, they need to be under the `"use client";` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `<OrganizationProfile.Page />` and `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` can be rendered **only on the client**.  For Next.js applications that use App Router, the `"use client";` flag needs to be used.
```

                <OrganizationProfile.Page label="settings" />
            </OrganizationProfile>
        );

        export default OrganizationProfilePage;
        ```
    </Tab>

    <Tab>
        ```tsx filename="routes/organization/$.tsx"
        import { OrganizationProfile } from "@clerk/remix";
        import { MyCustomPageContent } from "../components";
        import { CustomIcon, Icon } from "../icons";

        export default function OrganizationProfilePage() {
        return (
            <OrganizationProfile path="/organization-profile" routing="path">
                <OrganizationProfile.Page label="Custom Page" url="custom" labelIcon={<CustomIcon />}>
                    <MyCustomPageContent />
                </OrganizationProfile.Page>
                <OrganizationProfile.Link label="Homepage" url="/home" labelIcon={<Icon />} />
                <OrganizationProfile.Page label="members" />
                <OrganizationProfile.Page label="settings" />
            </OrganizationProfile>
            );
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

The above example will result in the following order:

1. Custom Page
2. Homepage
3. Members
4. Settings

> **Notes**
> 
> - The first page in the list will be rendered under the root path `/` (its `url` will be ignored) and the Clerk pages will be rendered under the path `/organitzation-members` and `/organization-settings`.
> - The first item in the list cannot be a `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to note that the first page in the list will be rendered under the root path `/` (its `url` will be ignored) and the Clerk pages will be rendered under the path `/organitzation-members` and `/organization-settings`. Also, the first item in the list cannot be a `<OrganizationProfile.Link />` component.
```

### Using custom pages with the `<OrganizationSwitcher />` component

If you are using the `<OrganizationSwitcher />` component with the default props (where the `OrganizationProfile` opens as a modal), then you should also be providing these custom pages as children to the component (using the `<OrganizationSwitcher.OrganizationProfilePage />` and `<OrganizationSwitcher.OrganizationProfileLink />` components respectively).

### Usage

<Tabs items={['Next.js', 'React', 'Remix']}>
    <Tab>

>         `<OrganizationSwitcher.OrganizationProfilePage />` and `<OrganizationSwitcher.OrganizationProfileLink />` can be rendered **only on the client**, and in Next.js app-router projects, they need to be under the `"use client";` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `<OrganizationSwitcher.OrganizationProfilePage />` and `<OrganizationSwitcher.OrganizationProfileLink />` can be rendered **only on the client**.  For Next.js applications using App Router, the `"use client";` flag must be added.
```
